(whoosing)
All right, let's talk about "Dynamic Routing".
So right now we just have products
and we need to be able to filter them.
So just something like products
we could either do query string,
which is like Page is equal to 2.
Oh, let me bring this into here.
So we can do something like that.
That is called query string routing.
And what that does is it just renders
the same product every single time
but passes us a little bit of differential along with it.
And then we could also do like file based routing
index js, which is /products/2.
Quite honestly, I think this looks better.
This is more for when you have like
multiple query PARAMs
that you you don't necessarily know
what they're going to be.
Search, Filter, things like that.
This is a little bit nicer in my opinion.
So in order to do that,
we've kind of already done it.
We've done /product/id.js.
We're just going to do that again
and I'll show you how to do it.
So we are going to make a Folder,
so new Folder and we're going to call it Products, okay?
And then inside of that
we need a New File that is going to be called Square
and then page.js.
And you can call this whatever you want.
Like previously we called it id.js
but this is what the variable will be called
when it's passed to you via the query PARAM.
Now we have a bit of an issue
in that we have a products that's js
and we have a products/page.
So if we were to export default products page
you don't have to do this or just return.
Let's just return something from that
just to see if this works turn and P, Hey.
Export default function products page there we go.
Now, if we go to products/2,
we get, Hey
you go back to products,
Oh, it actually still works.
I didn't think that would work.
(laughs)
It does.
So you can either keep this as products.js,
or you can put it as an index in this products right here.
And I don't know which one I like better.
(groans) See I don't like naming files index.js,
because it's not so descriptive to me.
And if you were to open up multiple index jss
you just have multiple indexes in here.
It will tell you what Folder it's in, in VS Code.
But I like naming my stuff, what it is.
But the other flip side to that is
I kind of like having them in the same Folder
because if I'm looking at the page /products
then I know that that's where it is.
So I think we should move it.
And we're going to have to rename it
from products js to index js
but I think we can do it.
Now, so I'm going to take this here,
drag and drop it in there.
And it's going to ask us, are you sure you want to move?
And you say yes, Move.
And then it should ask us if we want to update imports,
there we go.
Update imports for product.js
because we've changed the directory structure.
And now everything we imported is is that a different level.
So we're going to say Yes.
And let's just double-check that this right here
you see how these, if it didn't work for you
you will see just one level up, something like that.
But if it did work for you,
you see we go two levels up
in order to get the things that we need.
Okay, good.
Then the last thing we need to do
is just rename that to index.js.
So here's the other thing
is our index page is now importing this.
So we need to update those as well.
I'll show you how to do that
if you're not using VS Code.
Click Yes
and if you look at your main index.js File
which is right here,
you'll see that it is actually the import is the same,
but it would look like this,
but because of imports you can just do it like that.
All right let's see if this is working.
No we've got our broken products.js
no pages for products.js, okay.
That makes sense
because we don't have a products.js anymore.
We have a products/index.js.
So maybe this is one of the cases
where we need to restart it.
Yeah, let's try go and restart the whole process.
There we go.
That worked.
Okay, so we just had to restart the process after that.
So the important thing here is that our index js
is importing
the index such as file from the products Folder.
And normally it would look like something like this
but because it's named index
you can simply just import the Folder.
And then in here we are saying
render out index such as when it's on the main page.
And then if we go to /products/3
we're now rendering out this page.
So let's work in here.
Now what we want to do is
we basically just want to do the same thing
we did on our Homepage
which is export the products here.
So it will say export.
So I'll say export
default
from
and it is index.
Is that work?
It does.
Okay, so that might be a little bit confusing.
So what's happening here is that
we want the same thing to render out
on three different URLs, right?
This is file based routing at its finest
is we've got three different files
but they're all rendering out the same thing.
Our index page right here,
our page route right here
as well as our /products main page.
When somebody doesn't pass the page number
and we are just defining what happens in one file
and the other ones are simply just pointing to it.
So what we can now do is we should be able to access
the current page value by accessing our router.
So we'll go in here.
We'll say const
let's just say router is equal to use router.
And this is a hook that comes with next js.
I can import it.
So import use router from next js
And we should be able to, there we go.
Console log.
The router itself.
And you see our router has all kinds of stuff in it.
As-Path, back, events
is-Fallback, locales
pre-fetch blah, blah blah, blah, blah.
The important part we need is this the query.
And you see, it gives us the page number.
That page value comes because we named our file
square brackets page.
And the same thing It is a query.id
because we named it square bracket id.
So here we can just go
and let's destructure the query
that's directly off but use router.
And then here we can say,
the page is equal to the query.page or 1.
And then what that will do is
if there is no page path to the query,
meaning that we're on the Homepage
or we're on the products page,
then we'll default to one.
Otherwise we're on /products/2
and it should work.
So we'll do that the same here
and pass it there.
You probably could also
Yeah, you could probably also
just query this right inside of the pagination.
I don't necessarily see a reason
why you would have to pass it in.
So you could put that inside of the pagination as well.
I'll keep it like that just to show you,
I think the reason why we did that is
these hooks used to only be available at a page level
and not the hooks,
but you could only access the query at a page level
and you had to pass it in
but you can use this use router hook
anywhere you want which is really slick.
So do these, URLs work now next?
Yeah, look at this.
Oh no, (laughing) that is not working.
So if I refresh page one of seven,
I click on Next page 11
(laughing)
Extra points if you can find out what happened here.
So we were on page one
And you click on Next
then we get to page 11.
Well, let's go into the pagination, take a look here.
Page is probably
being ah! pages a string, right?
Like if you have a string of one and you add one,
you get 11 right?
And if we have that so we were concatenating
not actually adding.
And I bet that is because
it's either being passed in as a string.
Let's go back to our products page here.
I'll show you how to find that out.
Log query.page.
So it's black so it's a string,
but if you weren't sure
you could also just like log out and like a real number.
And you could see that that number is green
or whatever colors in Chrome DevTools
or you can check it, you can say type of
and it will tell you it's a string and not a number.
So what we want to do is we'll say const page
is equal to parse.
It is an Int because it's a whole number
And then would say type of page.
And then if you pass not query.page
but just page here,
that should now work.
So you see it type of is now a number.
And if we go to page one and click on Next
and now it goes two, three, four, five, six, seven
and then the next button is grayed out
go all the way back to the Homepage.
And the previous button is grayed out.
Awesome, so that is getting the query variable
and doing our dynamic routing
in the last video we'll do is we'll pass that value
over to our products query
and be able to filter for the ones that we want.